README.md, before:

# <h1 align="center">⚡️ OpenAI for Workers AI 🧠</h1>

### <p align="center">Simple, quick, and dirty implementation of OpenAI's API on Cloudflare's new Workers AI platform.</p>

## Why?

I think that in the near future, smaller, cheaper LLMs will be a legitimate competitor to OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 APIs. Most developers will not want to rewrite their entire codebase in order to use these up-and-coming models. I also think that Cloudflare Workers are a neat way to host AI and APIs, so I implemented the OpenAI API on Workers AI. This allows developers to use the OpenAI SDKs with the new LLMs without having to rewrite all of their code. This code, as is Workers AI, is not production ready but will be semi-regularly updated with new features as they roll out to Workers AI.

## How?

By using all the tools available on Cloudflare of course! The API is written in pure, Workers-compatible Javascript to minimize dependency overhead. Any of the supported [Text Generation LLMs](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/text-generation/#available-embedding-models) can be used in place of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. Any supported [Text-to-Image](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/text-to-image/#available-embedding-models) can be used in place of the Dall-e models. OpenAI's open source Whisper model is used to perform [Automatic Speech Recognition](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/speech-recognition/). Cloudflare's [R2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/) is used for image file storage, and will be used for user file uploads when implemented. [D1](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/) is used as a base database solution, and [Vectorize](https://developers.cloudflare.com/vectorize/), the builtin [AI Embeddings](https://developers.cloudflare.com/vectorize/get-started/embeddings/#5-write-code-in-your-worker), and D1 will be used anywhere we need a vector database.

## Compatibility

Here are all the APIs I would like to implement or have implemented that are currently possible with the Workers AI platform.

* [x] Completions
  + [ ] Streaming
  + [x] Non-Streaming
* [x] Chat Completions
  + [ ] Streaming
  + [x] Non-Streaming
* [x] Audio Transcription
* [x] Embeddings
* [x] Audio Translation
  + Uses Whisper to transcribe, Llama 2 to identify the language, and m2m-100 to translate.
* [x] Images
  + [x] Image Generation
* [ ] Files
  + Needed for some of the tools used in assistants.
  + Use a D1 database for metadata, R2 for the actual file.
* [ ] Assistants
  + **Note**: Requires a paid Workers account to use.
  + [x] Assistants
    - Store assistants in a D1 database.
    - File support is a work in progress and will be just limited to text files for the initial MVP. Need to find a good OCR solution that can run on Workers and is free/cheap.
  + [x] Threads
    - Use a D1 database to store threads. Relate them to an assistant.
  + [ ] Messages
    - Store messages in a D1 database. Relate them to a thread.
    - Messages also get embedded and stored in Vectorize for later use. Referenced by D1 ID.
  + [ ] Runs
    - Use a queue to handle runs. Get messages from a D1 database, return results to database.
  + [ ] Tools
    - [ ] Retrieval tool. Needs Files.
    - [ ] Code Interpreter. Needs Files.
    - [ ] Custom Functions.

Here are the APIs that I would like to implement but are not currently possible with the Workers AI platform.

* Fine Tuning
* Images
  + Image Editing
  + Image Variants

Here are the APIs that could probably be implemented but I don't have the need to implement them. If anyone else would like to attempt to implement them, feel free to open a PR.

* Moderation
  + Use Llama 2 to classify. May be difficult to prompt engineer.

## Deploying

First, clone the repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chand1012/openai-cf-workers-ai
cd openai-cf-workers-ai
```

Then, install the dependencies and deploy to your account. If you are not logged in to wrangler, you will be prompted to log in.

```bash
npm i
npm run init-prod # only needs run the first time!!!
npm run init-db # copy the output TOML and replace the [[d1_databases]] section in the wrangler.toml file with it
npm run deploy
```

As of 07/10/2023 testing locally does not work. However, you can test remotely using the following command:

```bash
npm i
npm run init-dev # only needs run the first time!!!
npm run init-db # copy the output TOML and replace the [[d1_databases]] section in the wrangler.toml file with it
npm run dev
```

This will start a local server that will proxy requests to your deployed API. You can then use the API as you normally would, but with the local server's URL instead of the deployed URL.

## Usage

See the [OpenAI API docs](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction) for more information on the API. Here's an example from the OpenAI docs:

```bash
curl https://openai-cf.yourusername.workers.dev/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "@cf/meta/llama-2-7b-chat-int8",
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello!"
      }
    ]
  }'
# {"id":"ccfbc7fc-d871-4139-90dc-e6c33fc7f275","model":"@cf/meta/llama-2-7b-chat-int8","created":1696701894,"object":"chat.completion","choices":[{"index":0,"message":{"role":"assistant","content":"Hello there! *adjusts glasses* It's a pleasure to meet you. Is there something I can help you with or would you like to chat? I'm here to assist you in any way I can. 😊"},"finish_reason":"stop"}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":0,"completion_tokens":0,"total_tokens":0}}
```

If you want to use this with the OpenAI Python or JavaScript SDK, you can use the following code, replace the base URL with your own. For example:

```python
import openai
openai.api_base = 'https://openai-cf.yourusername.workers.dev/'

# rest of code
```

```javascript
import OpenAI from 'openai';

const openai = new OpenAI({
    baseURL: 'https://openai-cf.yourusername.workers.dev/',
    ...
});

// rest of code
```

## Compromises

There were a few compromises I had to make in order to create the API.

The first is that the API does not count tokens properly, and uses a rough estimate of 4 characters per token to guess how many tokens are in the prompt. There is no way to count tokens with the current API, so this estimation will have to do until we can count tokens properly. This estimation works for most cases where a Llama 2-style or derivative model is used.

Stop tokens are also non-functional. There is no way to specify a stop reason or token with the current API. It will be ignored.

Finally, for simplicity's sake, there is no API key functionality. Because the current rate limits (as of 07/10/2023) are rather strict for Cloudflare AI anyways, I decided not to count or limit requests. In the future when we can count tokens this may change, or we may limit per request instead of per token. This will be determined in the future when we have proper public pricing for Workers AI.

## License

Licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update OpenAI API implementation and dependencies

README.md, after:

# <h1 align="center">⚡️ OpenAI for Workers AI 🧠</h1>

### <p align="center">Use Llama, Mistral, and Stable Diffusion seamlessly with existing OpenAI powered projects!</p>

## Why?

I think that in the near future, smaller, cheaper LLMs will be a legitimate competitor to OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 APIs. Most developers will not want to rewrite their entire codebase in order to use these up-and-coming models. I also think that Cloudflare Workers are a neat way to host AI and APIs, so I implemented the OpenAI API on Workers AI. This allows developers to use the OpenAI SDKs with the new LLMs without having to rewrite all of their code. This code, as is Workers AI, is not production ready but will be semi-regularly updated with new features as they roll out to Workers AI.

## How?

By using all the tools available on Cloudflare of course! The API is written in pure, Workers-compatible Javascript to minimize dependency overhead. Any of the supported [Text Generation LLMs](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/text-generation/#available-embedding-models) can be used in place of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. Any supported [Text-to-Image](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/text-to-image/#available-embedding-models) can be used in place of the Dall-e models. OpenAI's open source Whisper model is used to perform [Automatic Speech Recognition](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/speech-recognition/). Cloudflare's [R2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/) is used for image file storage, and will be used for user file uploads when implemented. [D1](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/) is used as a base database solution, and [Vectorize](https://developers.cloudflare.com/vectorize/), the builtin [AI Embeddings](https://developers.cloudflare.com/vectorize/get-started/embeddings/#5-write-code-in-your-worker), and D1 will be used anywhere we need a vector database.

## Compatibility

Here are all the APIs I would like to implement or have implemented that are currently possible with the Workers AI platform.

* [x] Completions
  + [ ] Streaming
  + [x] Non-Streaming
* [x] Chat Completions
  + [ ] Streaming
  + [x] Non-Streaming
* [x] Audio Transcription
* [x] Embeddings
* [x] Audio Translation
  + Uses Whisper to transcribe, Llama 2 to identify the language, and m2m-100 to translate.
* [x] Images
  + [x] Image Generation
* [ ] Files
  + Needed for some of the tools used in assistants.
  + Use a D1 database for metadata, R2 for the actual file.
* [ ] Assistants
  + **Note**: Requires a paid Workers account to use.
  + [x] Assistants
    - Store assistants in a D1 database.
    - File support is a work in progress and will be just limited to text files for the initial MVP. Need to find a good OCR solution that can run on Workers and is free/cheap.
  + [x] Threads
    - Use a D1 database to store threads. Relate them to an assistant.
  + [ ] Messages
    - Store messages in a D1 database. Relate them to a thread.
    - Messages also get embedded and stored in Vectorize for later use. Referenced by D1 ID.
  + [ ] Runs
    - Use a queue to handle runs. Get messages from a D1 database, return results to database.
  + [ ] Tools
    - [ ] Retrieval tool. Needs Files.
    - [ ] Code Interpreter. Needs Files.
    - [ ] Custom Functions.

Here are the APIs that I would like to implement but are not currently possible with the Workers AI platform.

* Fine Tuning
* Images
  + Image Editing
  + Image Variants

Here are the APIs that could probably be implemented but I don't have the need to implement them. If anyone else would like to attempt to implement them, feel free to open a PR.

* Moderation
  + Use Llama 2 to classify. May be difficult to prompt engineer.

## Deploying

First, clone the repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chand1012/openai-cf-workers-ai
cd openai-cf-workers-ai
```

Then, install the dependencies and deploy to your account. If you are not logged in to wrangler, you will be prompted to log in.

```bash
npm i
npm run init-prod # only needs run the first time!!!
npm run init-db # copy the output TOML and replace the [[d1_databases]] section in the wrangler.toml file with it
npm run deploy
```

As of 07/10/2023 testing locally does not work. However, you can test remotely using the following command:

```bash
npm i
npm run init-dev # only needs run the first time!!!
npm run init-db # copy the output TOML and replace the [[d1_databases]] section in the wrangler.toml file with it
npm run dev
```

This will start a local server that will proxy requests to your deployed API. You can then use the API as you normally would, but with the local server's URL instead of the deployed URL.

## Usage

See the [OpenAI API docs](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction) for more information on the API. Here's an example from the OpenAI docs:

```bash
curl https://openai-cf.yourusername.workers.dev/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "@cf/meta/llama-2-7b-chat-int8",
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello!"
      }
    ]
  }'
# {"id":"ccfbc7fc-d871-4139-90dc-e6c33fc7f275","model":"@cf/meta/llama-2-7b-chat-int8","created":1696701894,"object":"chat.completion","choices":[{"index":0,"message":{"role":"assistant","content":"Hello there! *adjusts glasses* It's a pleasure to meet you. Is there something I can help you with or would you like to chat? I'm here to assist you in any way I can. 😊"},"finish_reason":"stop"}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":0,"completion_tokens":0,"total_tokens":0}}
```

If you want to use this with the OpenAI Python or JavaScript SDK, you can use the following code, replace the base URL with your own. For example:

```python
import openai
openai.api_base = 'https://openai-cf.yourusername.workers.dev/'

# rest of code
```

```javascript
import OpenAI from 'openai';

const openai = new OpenAI({
    baseURL: 'https://openai-cf.yourusername.workers.dev/',
    ...
});

// rest of code
```

## Compromises

### TLDR

* Token counts are estimates. They are not accurate.
  + 4 characters per token for LLMs.
  + 2 tokens per word for Embeddings.
* Stop tokens are ignored.
* Each message is limited to 4096 *characters*. This is not the same as tokens.
* No API keys. Rate limits are not enforced.

There were a few compromises I had to make in order to create the API.

The first is that the API does not count tokens properly, and uses a rough estimate of 4 characters per token to guess how many tokens are in the prompt. Embeddings assumes 2 tokens per word. There is no way to count tokens with the current API, so this estimation will have to do until we can count tokens properly. This estimation works for most cases where a Llama 2-style or derivative model is used. Messages are also limited to 4096 characters each by Cloudflare.

Stop tokens are also non-functional. There is no way to specify a stop reason or token with the current API. It will be ignored.

Finally, for simplicity's sake, there is no API key functionality. Because the current rate limits (as of 07/10/2023) are rather strict for Cloudflare AI anyways, I decided not to count or limit requests. In the future when we can count tokens this may change, or we may limit per request instead of per token. This will be determined in the future when we have proper public pricing for Workers AI.

## License

Licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
